[Music]
there is a door in your head but no one
told you about
it is the door through which we enter
into life that we pass out of life again
[Music]
it is the door which separates ordinary
consciousness
from genius it is the door that
separates time-bound mind and timeless
mode the door that leads from personal
consciousness to cosmic consciousness
[Music]
the mysterious cultures that existed at
the very beginning of recorded history
whose cultural and technical
accomplishments demonstrate an almost
unfathomable genius took special care to
immortalize the instructions that enable
each individual to access their own
hidden door
[Music]
thank you so much Chris for being with
us today I really appreciate you taking
the time to share this amazing
information with people I want to say
that your book has been one of the most
revelatory that I've read ever and the
information contained within it so no
honestly I mean I think it is so
interesting and also so helpful to us at
this particular time there's so much in
there that will help us guide our way
into the future so I really appreciate
that the book is a very interesting read
and that it is filled with a lot of pain
and a lot of suffering and ecstasy's
beyond ecstasy's and what I would like
to do today because there are four other
people's edification several interviews
review out there where you go into the
protocols and the process so if people
are interested in understanding exactly
how you obtain this information make an
A buy this today what I'd like to do
focus on the content of the journeys and
the teachings that you came to great
came to you now I think we'll start with
the worst of it which you have called
the ocean of suffering and you have
sessions in let's separate for a second
you undertook 73 LSD sessions to obtain
this information and the book 1979 in
1999 over 20 year period I did 73
high-dose sessions actually it was three
medium dose sessions and 70 high-dose
but for convenience 73 hide those
sessions following the protocols
established by standing crop so these
were live sessions so on so forth I
shades headphones sitter you know the
whole nine yards which
you can see that a clinical setting per
se or a shamanistic setting or just
following the protocols that study the
drug actually developed well they were
they emerged in a clinical setting but
whether you call it clinical or
shamanistic sort of depends partly on
your cultural perspective on your
cultural context there were clinical in
the sense of they originated in that
therapeutic context but they went far
beyond therapeutic applications or
therapeutic impact and in that sense
it's not clinical per se absolutely that
makes sense
all right ocean of suffering sessions 11
through 17 yeah well what had happened
was in the first two and a half years I
went through kind of classic perinatal
symptomology perinatal that standard
girls graph describes in many of his
books and I went through at the end of
the kind of a shattering ego death
experience and just kind of blew me
apart turned me inside out and then
after that a whole new cycle began a
cycle that lasted two years of 14
sessions where in the purifying phase of
this session which usually for me means
the first half of the session during the
purifying phase of the session I went
into vast landscapes panoramas of human
suffering that went progressively deeper
and deeper session by session and at
first I thought this was a deepening of
ego death but over time I became
convinced that this was more than that
it had to be more than that because it
involved subjectively so many thousands
of people and so many thousands of years
eventually I came to the conclusion that
something had shifted inside my sessions
and the consciousness that was directing
my sessions was using my sessions to
heal not my personal psyche but some
aspect of the collective unconscious of
humanity and so what happened was I did
this work for a year I stopped my work
for six years and then I began it again
after six years for another year
the ocean of suffering when I resumed
after six years began exactly where I
had stopped I think is an indication of
the extraordinary intelligence and the
precision of that intelligence at
directing these arts and our you know
and our session work well that brings up
a point that I do want to address with
you and that is the fact that these
sessions seem very well planned very
well thought-out they're not haphazard
trips yeah as people can experience when
doing hallucinogens and so tell me a
little bit about who was doing the
planning and who was doing the
organizing of these 73 sessions that
took you on this extraordinary journey
yeah it certainly wasn't me I was never
in control of what happened in my
sessions you can set when you're working
I worked at 500 to 600 micrograms per
session some very high doses of LSD I
don't recommend this protocol I honestly
don't know in what I know now but when
you do this work you can set all the
intentions you want you can't direct
what's happening in your sessions so I
think of it as a collaboration of
cooperation my responsibility was to
create as clean a field as possible to
allow clear contact so totally isolated
from the world totally internally
focused and at the end of every session
writing a detailed transcript of what
happened during the sessions I think
that's important because it really helps
us learn and hold on to what happened
and then it provides a clearer
foundation when we return to the
psychedelic state in the next session so
after I'd done that after I clear the
set
I focused myself did everything I could
to establish a clean contact after that
what happened in the sessions is
entirely a matter of a larger
consciousness that was directing my
experiences or organizing my experiences
and I think this went far beyond
anything in my personal unconscious
because the you know the scale of the
sessions are just
faster than anything I could dream up or
imagine on my own so I have to place the
organization that's in the hands of the
universe absolutely it's just such it
for somebody that hasn't been on this
journey an inconceivable idea and we'll
get a little bit further on to some of
the communications that you actually had
the interactivity and almost the
discussions or the dialogues that you
had with this consciousness which
fascinated me but for a moment I'm going
to go back to the ocean of suffering
just because some of the words you use
to describe that period so session 11
trapped in a chamber of horrors session
12 I was killed mauled maimed session 13
reminded of Dante's Inferno session 14
crescendo of torture and session 15
excruciating pain and unspeakable
horrors so the first thing is why did
you continue well it's because of what
happened at the end the second half of
the sessions first half of the sessions
I was taken into this terrible pain and
suffering and in this but when I would
go through that and one of the most
profound lessons I learned from Stan
Grof is to completely trust the process
so if you don't fight what's happening
if you give yourself over to it
completely it will build and build
you'll hit a crescendo and if you
navigate this crescendo well you will be
spun into positive trans personal spaces
for the remainder of the session so
these sessions were not just ocean of
suffering but they were the ocean of
suffering in the first hour - and then I
would be spun into this extraordinary
series of experiences I've ever been
deep time in the soul and the initiation
in the universe so that at the end of
the session what I would internalize was
a phase of this intense suffering and
then hours of ecstatic participation in
some aspect of the universe itself so I
would go back to it because I wanted
initiation into the universe absolutely
it just sounds like such a space of
torment and I have spent a lot of time
thinking about the suffering and when I
first started reading the book you
explained you in session 24 actually you
get a little bit more deep into the
cause or the purpose of the suffering
and you speak about this consciousness
being a consciousness of incredible love
overall and and you say the pain had
begun in love and I was shown that the
pain sorry did not represent a rupturing
of love but itself was an expression of
this love being born into space-time
even the very birth of space-time itself
was an expression of unshakable love and
so what I'd like to do is just
understand that a little bit more how
does all this torrential pain come from
love well because creation comes from
love and I think the pain that I was
encountering here was the pain that is
somehow lodged in the collective psyche
the pain of human suffering over
thousands and thousands of years all the
war is all the terrible things we've
done to each other all the rapes all the
brutality all this terrible suffering
and if this suffering is not cleared at
the end of an individual life it's not
only the individual who has to bear the
consequences of that undigested pain but
the species itself the species - a
collective unconscious of our species
must also bear the burden of somehow
reconciling itself with this Jericho
pain which it does in different ways but
one of the ways it seems to have
happened is I was able to go dissolve
into the collective unconscious and when
the healing process deepened it
represented some type of lifting out of
the collective psyche this magnitude of
suffering and so when I say the
suffering began
in pain what I mean is that all
existence begins and deveined love and
that one of the things I was shown in
this process was we are actually
co-creators in this process we're not
victims this isn't being done to us
existence is not being inflicted on us
and it's not a veil of Tears we're not
being punished for anything a creation
is a long process very long and
drawn-out with many many stages of
incompleteness before we get to the
greater places where we are still going
and so that we knew we were getting into
this when we chose to participate in
creation we knew we were going to be
dealing with the very unfinished and it
s yet imperfect system and we
volunteered for this process because of
the grandeur of what is taking place the
grandeur of creation itself moving from
very simple organisms to very
complicated organisms from unconscious
organisms to self conscious and
deepening self conscious organisms
that's the that's the love out of which
the pain emerge and the pain is simply
the struggles you know the inherent
struggles of existing on this planet do
you think that the struggles rise out of
a disconnection from this source or do
you feel that it's more of the model
that stanislav grof talks about is that
it's a birthing princess that it's
actually there's a period where we're
birthing into this new human if you will
and that associated journey down the
birth canal is full of fear and torment
and and you know before actually born
yeah well I think in the early stages
there is an aspect of reliving our birth
and experiencing the birth canal because
you know the womb is how we get into
time and space and the grave is how we
get out of time and space so when our
consciousness is expanding beyond our
physical time-space consciousness there
is this kind of we get into the
revolving door of death
rebirth so we often relive our birth in
the process of being birthed back into
spiritual reality but I think that apply
is that kind of language applies
particularly in these early stages it
applies in the later stages but not so
literally in the same way I have a
chapter in the book which I think it may
be the most important chapter the birth
of the future humans so I'm looking at
this historical crisis that we're
entering this global systems crisis
driven by a global ecological crisis as
the context which is giving birth to a
fundamentally changed human being and
creating a shift in the collective
psyche that we'll get to
and so I speak of that as a birthday and
it is a birth but it's not a birth in
the sense of being trapped in the birth
canal or something like this it's a
larger dynamic of a species which is in
the process of self transforming self
emerging into a higher order of itself
it's so interesting indeed and we will
get to that because I do agree with you
that is a very important message for
Humanity and something that we all need
to understand and it kind of makes
things a lot more hopeful understand
what's really happening underneath
historical events one thing I just want
to touch upon is that there is the theme
that this process is not an individual
initiation as it is or an initial
liberation or enlightenment but that
what is necessary here is this process
is taken by humanity as its own
individual organism if you will one of
the things that happened repeatedly over
the years is I dissolved into the
species mind so deeply and then into the
context of the species mind and the
evolutionary order of things is that it
became very very clear to me that the
creative intelligence that's behind the
evolution that's behind our universe
interested only in individuals but it's
interested in entire species it's trying
to awaken not just individuals it's
trying to awaken the entire human
species the human family as one so all
of our individual efforts take our
fractal embodiments of a larger
collective effort so the collective
informs the individual and the
individual influences the collective
that makes a lot of sense and also it
one it encourages me to be sympathetic
and nice to other individuals which i
think is a very important message
because we also are one you know that
idea we are one there is another saying
that people use in literature that talks
about awakening and is remember who you
are remember who you are and that's
something that has always baffled me a
little bit but in session 18 I believe
remember who you are you and I creating
that was one of my favorite concert the
book even though it was the worst pain
ever for you cleansing aspect of that
but I love the story where it talks
about underneath the horrors and the
pain and the drama there were these
little domino some sweetness that would
flip over do you want to tell me a
little bit about that that story for
grant audience well it would probably
take us too long to go through the
entire session the important part of
this session after going through this
kind of venetian blind flipping back and
forth between the terrible pain of the
suffering of existence slipping into the
great sweetness some extraordinary
sweetness going back and forth until
eventually the process took me into this
beautiful moment of clarity and it
showed me as the sweetness that I was
experiencing was not the origin of
pleasure but the origin of existence
itself and with that this bubble
and I came to a remembering of who I was
in a deeper level that I was
consciousness I was part of the
consciousness that was secreted in pulse
of our universe and that we are all
sourced in this creative intelligence
this creative consciousness which is
driving our universe forward this was it
became really this session was all about
remember remember who you are remember
what you are it really gets down to a
very basic point our memories define the
limits of our being we we are what we
remember being most of us don't have
memories beyond early childhood but when
you work at psychedelics and enter
non-ordinary states of consciousness
through meditation or near-death
experiences or any number of different
contexts we can remember we can our
memories can be extended our remembering
can be extended beyond our childhood
beyond even earth beyond even former
lives when we remember very very deeply
our memories take us back to the
creative impulse of existence itself the
very impulse that brought time and space
into being to remember that deeply to
have this as a memory suddenly changes
your self definition your sense of who
and what you are you become you
understand that you are part of the
creative universe you're part of the
energy that's creating the universe and
with that there's a just a tremendous
reframing of your understanding of what
your life is about and your
understanding of what life itself is
about I loved in that session that me
you your face was taken into the hands
and you were looked in the eyes and it
was said to you it is you and I creating
my love all suffering and ignorance is
simply what has happened since we
separated so one of the things is in
this book you have actually met a cast
of characters if you want to call them
that but entities consciousnesses
and that was just a beautiful experience
I can imagine it was it was a very
meaningful experience it's it's
interesting you know in DMT sessions
people have many experiences where they
meet specific entities and what's kind
of curious about my LSD journey is that
I had relatively few experiences meeting
meeting discrete individual entities
basically I kept being dissolved in two
layers and layers of being rather than
into a state where I met individual
beings so this being something took my
face in its hands looked into my eyes
and said this event you and I creating
my love and I so I've had many
experiences of communion contact even
conversation dialogue with an
intelligence but this intelligence never
took physical form never took any kind
of cultural specific form never took a
deity form never took any form of
archetypes it was always a clear
presence that I felt but it was not a
presence that was visible to me that's
so interesting so when they took you you
felt it was more of an experience and
actually seeing yeah but the the words
were very clear the intention was very
clear speaking at the dialogue I love
the circle of learning in session 19 the
cosmic juror in that session you really
seem to really begin this intense
dialogue witness consciousness yeah so
it go ahead it wasn't so much of a
dialogue per se as an experiential yeah
basically when I came through the ocean
of suffering in that session I basically
came into there were several preliminary
experiences but eventually I came into
an arena where I was in dialogue with
this consciousness and I could know
anything that I wanted to know if
I could endure it but so in this arena I
would ask questions and it would respond
to me by orchestrating my experience in
order to show me but it was that I
wanted to understand and then eventually
it took me on what I call the cosmic
tour it seemed to be the creative
intelligence of the universe and it
seemed to be delighted to be able to
finally be showing human beings and me
only as representative of my species
coming back to the creative intelligence
and it wanted to show us what it had
accomplished during all these thirteen
point seven billions of years and it
would take me somewhere and show me
something I would understand and
sometimes what I saw was so mesmerizing
I would sort of stop and be just
dumbfounded by the beauty of it and it
would hurry it would come back from me
and it would say hurry up hurry up I'm
going to show you this astounding the
magnitude of the intelligence that's
embedded in our universe that manifests
our universe and the magnitude of the
love that lies at the very font of
creation this was a staggering
revelation for me but when I began this
work even though I have a background in
you know religious studies I began this
work as an atheist I began this work as
an agnostic and atheistic Lee inclined
agnostic I really was very skeptical
about the reality of a transcendent
dimension or the nobility of a
transcendent dimension so this was a
major kind of shift in my worldview to
even envision the possibility that we
could enter into space which were so
cognitively rich as these states were
can you share with us one part of the
tour that you have digested and
explained to us there was beautiful you
know that's the challenging part is that
I simply don't have enough PhDs to hold
in my conscious awareness many of the
things that I was shown if I had PhDs in
physics
astrophysics and cosmology I would have
a better chance of being able to have
retained cognitively specific
information that I was shown at that in
those circumstances in other sessions I
had very powerful experiences and I was
able to bring them back because there
were somewhat related to things that I
was educated in I I was shown many
things about reincarnation I was shown
many things about how reincarnation
works that led me to have an
understanding of reincarnation is very
different than the way it's presented in
Eastern cultures as well yeah my first
book is a book on reincarnation called
life cycles because it just to me to me
reincarnation is a fact of life as
overwhelming empirical evidence that
this is the case we didn't have this
evidence 50 years ago we do today but
kind of psychologically what motivated
what was behind that my writing that
book though I don't discuss it in the
book was in the sessions my own
experience of the karmic intentionality
of my life and some of my former lives
that surfaced in the sessions themselves
I don't talk about in their life cycles
I really try to stay in the basis of you
know publicly available research but
that was the background to the book you
also talk about it's an evolutionary
impulse yeah reincarnation so again not
just over the individual but for
Humanity as well yes I see reincarnation
as I as part of evolution it's the
higher octave of revolution of evolution
so evolution evolves whole groups it
falls collective learning forward in
time somehow nature has found a way or
the intelligence of nature has found a
way to evolve individuals within certain
species and to fold individual learning
forward in time so it's not just
individual human beings or reincarnating
all of excuse me all of humanity is
reincarnating and that means we're all
growing together and all of us growing
together is part of our species evolving
and growing developing new capacities
over long periods of time so it's very
much of an evolutionary dynamics and
while we here I may as well touch upon a
question I had a little bit further on
when you're saying that evolution
involves an individual and that
individual puts that information back
into the pot if you will the rest there
is a huge thing in your book and in the
respect that you by going through all of
this pain in a way you were digesting
and healing this collective
consciousness now I know for myself on
the work that I have done personally
that I need to go back into pain and
release it or work with it or
acknowledge it and Bank it and said it
goodbye
so in a sense you have done some of this
work on a larger scale I did and I want
to really emphasize even though I went
through many layers of suffering in this
process I don't carry any trauma from
this work I mean there's nothing
undigested that bothers me in the you
know I went into what the Buddhism calls
the hell realms you know people go into
the hell realms and different
circumstances but it didn't stick in my
system as trauma because I saw it
through to its conclusion like to again
all the way down to the base whatever
was given to me I took it down to the
base and was much more than amply
rewarded in the ecstatic experiences had
followed so a whole cycle of going into
pain breaking through the pain going
into the reward fun phase of a session
that's what I internalized as so now
yeah having done this work some of the
blessings that I received in later
sessions were the direct correlation or
the consequence
of having done the collective cleansing
so the principle of Karma's whatever we
do for others comes back to us in one
form or another so I had been given an
opportunity and an invitation to help in
this collective transformation and I
think this is nothing nothing terribly
heroic this is what any mother would do
for her children
any Paulding would do for his children
if you saw someone suffering and you had
an opportunity to help them and not make
them not suffer any payment being worth
their salt we do that same thing
happened here this opened in the
sessions I had an opportunity I took the
opportunity then later in the sessions
when this light began to fill me and
when I began to enter into orders of
ecstasy and and beatific visions that
really was a crescendo in many of many
years of work that was that was the
natural organic manifesting within my
individual awareness of the historic
process that humanity is going through
as a collective we are going through a
purification process we're going through
a detoxification process we're going
through a collective death and rebirth
process and that will be very very clear
in the decades ahead we're going through
a death rebirth process but death is
followed by rebirth purification is
followed by ecstatic joy this we do what
is it is it seeing it is it the holding
it is it the experiencing of it what
what is the mechanism that clears this
pain away you know in the respect it is
there it have you are you on a very very
grand scale you've done very very grand
work but possibly if we can understand
the process we can undertake some of it
ourselves so what is the trigger what is
that what what is that
do we need to get you to actually work
on this to help clear this away I think
that what we do in a session is simply
what is happening in life always all the
time
except it gets very concentrated and
amplified in a session but the dynamics
are fundamentally similar remember that
LSD are psychedelics in general they
don't give us they don't predicate a
particular experience they don't give us
a specific experience there are simply
amplifiers of consciousness so what
happens in a session is simply what is
happening in life but larger faster
deeper and I think the key to engaging
suffering in a way that lifts suffering
out of the system it's the same way that
in is true for therapy or engaging life
in general we have to sit with what it
is that's bothering us we have to enter
into a conscious rapport with the
suffering and let it come in to us let
our awareness take it in the only
difference here is that was the scale of
the suffering involved and the scale of
the memories that were being activated
but the basic process to let those
memories come into my awareness without
understanding where they were coming
from at the time or what it was serving
letting them come into my awareness and
my experience is that they come into my
awareness and they flow through me that
the scent there's a sense of flowing it
flows through me and I think it flows
into the light it flows and it allows
some type of deep reconciliation to take
place
I think conscious rapport is perfect in
my unlimited experience that's what it
feels like to me that there is a
conscious interaction or rapport with it
and that really does help yeah it does
and I think it works with in a
reincarnation of context I think for
example that there are many more
Bodhisattvas in the world than we think
perhaps that there are many people who
are
suffering so to speak in their physical
lives in their ordinary day-to-day lives
they they are suffering more pain than
so to speak as their just do more pain
than as their explainable in terms of
personal Karma
I think there are many people who are
also trying to lift the collective
psyche and they are willing to open
their lives to dimensions of suffering
that come at them in very tangible
concrete ways nothing you know they come
very tangible and they take it on and
they try to change you know they try to
change it they're trying to change
people's lives they're they they go into
places in the world where there is
suffering they don't need to go into
those places but they go into those
places to take on that pain in some way
and make a difference with respect to
that pain same principle same principle
this happens in a psychedelic session
council of elders again this was another
area of interactive dialogue and I found
it very interesting the idea that to
actually receive this knowledge you had
to prepare for it you needed explicit
training can you share with us a little
bit about that experience yeah well when
you start to go into dialogue with this
infinite consciousness that can show you
so many things at so many levels
you you truly have to train yourself to
stay cognitively coherent when you're
working at so many deep levels of
consciousness and it happens kind of
spontaneously in your work but in this
particular session
it seemed that I needed its kind of
training to help make this better and so
I was in this Council of Elders I was in
this surrounded by beings again that I
didn't see but I felt and I could know
anything I wanted if I could endure the
consequences of knowing it so I would
put forward a question and the elders
would take it and then they would start
to gather and they would start to chant
that music was the Tibetan chanting the
very deep guttural chanting of
the yield amongst in Tibet they would
chant and chant and then they would
release the snowing at me and if I was
centered when this knowing hit me it
would send me into an orgy of cognitive
ecstasy showing me things just showing
me things but if I wasn't centered if I
had allowed myself to get distracted and
I wasn't centered when this knowing hit
me it would just shatter me it would
just shatter my mind and I could not
stay cognitively coherent so in this
particular session many many times I was
shattered many times I was sent into
cognitive ecstasy but the point was to
train she literally have to train
yourself first to reach this level of
consciousness and then you have to train
yourself to be reached to learn how to
receive information that's coming from
different dimensions of consciousness
you have to learn how to stay awake and
how to stay coherent in levels of
consciousness which are beyond any
levels that you've ever experienced
before
and it can be done I mean the shamanic
cultures or masters of learning how to
enter these states of consciousness
meditation masters are masters at
learning how to enter these deep states
of consciousness it's just the same
dynamic just within a psychedelic
context as this training stayed with you
and is there any application for it in
normal consciousness I hope so normal
consciousness but I mean are there any
healthy have you are you in a place
where you can activate your your mind
your consciousness in that way in normal
consciousness it is the question of the
relationship between the experiences one
has in deep psychedelic states and then
your ordinary resting consciousness when
your session is over that's a
complicated question
it's clearly we cannot take our
experiences back and stabilize our
present earth consciousness in those
states it would be wonderful if we could
I wish we could wish I could but it's a
more subtle process I think these
experiences if we handle them well if we
record them and and learn from them they
give us practices they literally give me
practices that I'm supposed to do every
day after the sessions in between the
sessions if we use them well and
particularly if we stay grounded
because it's the greatest danger of
working in psychedelic States is psychic
inflation because we have had an
extraordinary experience we think we
must be an extraordinary person that's
just not true we have to stay grounded
but if we stay grounded experiences that
were given I think act as strange
attractors and accelerate our
evolutionary development in a certain
direction so I hope that some of the
some of the experiences I've had some of
the learnings that I've been given some
of the training in terms of focusing my
consciousness is I trusted it is
affecting me and it is benefiting me
outside of the sessions both directly
and indirectly but actually I think the
proof that's in the pudding when I die
in Buddhism all spiritual practice is
training you for what will happen when
you die actually wrong so I think the
same thing is true in psychedelic
sessions if you engage them
conscientiously they are training you
and preparing for you to enter into
states of consciousness that are waiting
for you when you die and so I think
there's a strong correlation there do
you have an idea of what level either to
when we die since you have visited so
many different levels of creation of
before creation did you get a sense of
what level we naturally
in fact I've had many experiences that
basically make sense I understand them
in terms of the eastern concept of the
bardo or the multiple levels of reality
one enters when you die the basic idea
is that you don't go to a place but
there is you go to a a complex domain
which has many many layers and the level
that you go to reflects the level of
your present spiritual development your
ability to stay conscious so all of
these levels are part of the Bartle
they're part of samsara they're part of
the evolving cyclic nature of of nature
the Sigma cyclic patterns of nature it's
also possible to go penetrate all the
way through the Bardo and enter extra
samsaric reality which is sometimes
called extra samsara core beyond the
domain of samsara this I would place the
diamond luminosity experiences extra
samsaric reality outside that reality so
where one goes when one dies really
depends upon how much homework on is
done while one is here I'm saluting I
was speaking of dying you died oh it has
changed your perspective on death
absolutely haven't I yeah one of the
things you learned that being afraid of
death it's just such a sadness I mean
I'm not not only am I not afraid of
dying
but I'm looking forward to being dead I
mean I'm not looking forward to the act
of dying so like there's absolutely no
fear for me and what happens to what
will happen to me when I die and I'm
looking forward to it because I've I've
crossed that line
multiple times over the course of all
these years of work and so I feel
comfortable where I'm going I'm filled
with ecstatic joy of where I'm going and
I think it's it's not just me but I
think we should all be filled with
ecstatic expectations ecstatic joy at
the prospect of where we go if we are
afraid of death then we've got our
entire entire world upside down
the hard work is done inside time and
space this is the hard place where we go
when we die is not the fart hard place
all this Hollywood malarkey about the
shadows and darkness and that I've put
out and demonic and benefit I know it's
much more benign than that it's much
more intelligent than that it's much
more compassionate than that
yeah so to me death is something I'm
looking forward to the first time you
died it was fear associated with it it
was the second time a little bit easier
or was this I mean like did you get just
but oh here it comes again the essence
of dying of course is losing complete
control you just you know there's
complete control of your identity you
lose complete control of your knowledge
you lose complete control of anything to
do with what you are and who you are and
that always says of frightening quality
but if you go through this multiple time
several things happen one of them is you
learn to trust the process and you learn
that you can die and the very structure
of your life can be completely dissolved
but you will reawaken some essence of
you some better version of you will wake
up in a different reality a total
unexpected joy you learn that there
really is no such thing truly as death
the form of your life can be destroyed
but the essence of your life is
indestructible and therefore you cannot
die now that doesn't mean that in some
way
gets easier but when you're going
through the middle of an advanced death
and rebirth process it's still
terrifying and it's still frightening
just because it is a deep deep
unraveling of anything you've ever known
so that the unraveling in the beginning
is the unraveling that your time-space
identity your body mind ego I've had
that experience because I once done you
know an LSD trip when I was in Amsterdam
and I remember trying to hold on to the
me they gave me with all my strength and
it was terrifying to being comes that
being dissipated and I hadn't read the
books and I didn't know what would
happen if I let my experience it is and
as you do it as you repeat it you get a
little more used to it so that aspect
the total total fear that gripped you in
the beginning
that's that ceases it's a different
quality of fear it's a more informed the
fear if that makes sense in the end of
course what happens is that death
becomes your best friend because I know
learned I learned late in the last five
years of work that there are many
degrees of dying and the deepest
ecstatic experiences the deepest
visionary experiences are follow our
fault
follow the deepest death experiences
once you understand that once you
understand that there are levels and
levels of dying
followed by levels and levels of
ecstatic revelation then death becomes
your friend you you not only don't want
to avoid it you seek it out you create
conditions in your sessions where you
want the tribulus and the destructuring
that is associated with
death and you you choose it because you
know it's waiting for you on the other
side of this radical destructuring so
death becomes your best friend death
becomes your mistress so I mean it
seemed strange to put it that way but
that is your gateway into transcendence
speaking of which on the other side of
death in session 22 and 23 you were
shown the master plan for Humanity yeah
so you kind of had to go through death
let's speak a little bit about that
well this was actually one of those real
surprises for me in this work because
when I this all took place between when
I was thirty and fifty years old and
this started in 79 ii went to 99 and and
when i had started this work i wasn't
studying i wasn't concerned about the
fate of humanity I really was completely
tuned out to global ecological crisis
this was just before that time for me
but what happened was starting in the
22nd 23rd session the theme of human
evolution the theme of the master plan
and I apologize for the patriarchal
quality maybe of that term I don't mean
it that way the master plan of humanity
and it kept coming back again and again
and it actually continued all the way to
the 70th session so in the 70th session
I was given one deep deep final vision
which was at once again the capstone of
this story and it was always a
consistent story so the story basically
for about three and a half years the
story had different components but the
story always had the same fundamental
structure she managed he was coming to a
turning point humanity was coming to a
major breakthrough this was a
breakthrough in history that would
divide between the before and after just
an enormous spiritual breakthrough and
it was a breakthrough it not of
individuals but was the entire species
and it was coming up inside it it was
coming up from within the collective
consciousness and it was cat
helping us into an accelerated
development beyond anything that we had
known previously but in all of these
years of missions which are present in
the book and in this chapter the birth
of the future human I was never shown
how nature was going to accomplish it
you know I did not understand how it was
going to accomplish this and along the
way I began to do my ecological homework
I began to read the books really helping
me become better educated about what's
happening and then in 1995 in the 55th
session it took me into deep time into
it took me into the future and it gave
me an experience of the death and
rebirth of our species it took me into
the critical turning point that these
visions had been talking about and I
experienced this not as an individual it
wasn't Chris page who had this
experience but at that point I was
completely dissolved into the species
mind into the collective unconscious and
I experienced the death and rebirth of
our species asked the species and it was
a it was a period again and it didn't
give me the details it didn't give me
any specifics about when where and how
but it was a a global systems crisis
triggered by a global ecological crisis
and it continued for decades it and it
basically triggered a profound suffering
as we lost control of the conditions of
our life life as we knew it was
shattered at the core and it looked for
a time that we would all be killed this
was an extinction process but just when
it was at its worst
eventually the crisis passed and things
began to get better and the survivors
began to pick themselves up and began to
Rican thing back together and when they
began to re-engage each other and engage
life they found that they were working
in a completely different internal
reality that values which had been
activated in the depth of this crisis
ways of knowing ways of being in the
world
had been activated and a shift had taken
place we would say in the collective
unconscious they shift at the foundation
of our being the collective psyche so
the entire post-crisis world was
saturated with new values new
perspectives new social units new ways
of understanding there was a tremendous
opening of the human heart into
compassion for other beings not only
human beings but for other beings other
species there was a tremendous opening
of the human mind to be open and
transparent to the intelligence of the
universe that can now could now infuse
itself more cleanly and clearly into our
human consciousness so I mean really
honestly it's it's a cliche I know but
we were becoming we became a species of
Buddhas a humanity began a collective
Buddhist and a species of Christ's and
prophets me basically made this deep
turning point and then in the 70th
session several years later it gave me
one final capstone retrospective in
which it showed me everything that it
had showed me before and gave me a
couple of last pieces of the instruction
concerning this transformational process
the reason I think this is the most
important part of the book it's
naturally because I'm personal
transformation
who cares one person but this is all of
our children all of our grandchildren my
great-grandchildren this is what this is
our work this is our collective work
this is what I'm here for what you're
here for what we are all here for is to
participate and to support this
collective transformational process and
I think it's been building through the
20th century it's been being going to
him we continue to build through the
21st century a series of I'm expecting a
series of punctuated crises that's just
going to be showing us we're going to be
inheriting we're going to be inheriting
the limitations of our previous
worldview of our of our less than
conscious
participation on this earth well if he's
thinking about it when we were doing
right now basically you cannot turn on
the TV the radio or a newspaper without
hearing about out climate disaster now
economic ecological damage but when you
were doing this work it wasn't very
thoughts you know it took a grind it
wasn't something so even having that
disclosure in these sessions was really
very much predicting the future if you
will aren't predicting them now back in
those times and so you know right now it
kind of of course it would be an
ecological disaster back then when you
were doing it that itself must have been
quite revelatory because possibly we
were thinking more of war or anihilation
nuclear annihilation of those kinds of
things if we had to put a finger on what
one hand us and also its ass go ahead
sweetie and if this awareness rises not
only in psychedelic States and it is it
is I don't use the word prophetic but it
is visionary and when you're going to
deep visionary States you breach the
laws of time you open yourself up into
future time but it's not just in
psychedelic States but deep
contemplatives have these experiences
indigenous people have been having these
visions of the future of humanity and
the indigenous brothers and sisters have
been warning the civilized members of
the human family about what we're doing
to the planet and I have a passage from
beads Griffiths in that chapter the
birth of the future human who is a
Christian Hindu Saints you know a
contemplative and he had these kind of
visions about where we're going the
present completely by surprise back then
yes absolutely that's why we have to
think that this was a while back that
it's not you it wasn't what all the
awareness that there is now the process
sounds very much like an individual
death process however in the respect
that in the book you talk about how we
everything that we rely on today goes
away you know
everything that we take for granted and
so that there's incredible chaos and
it's that for the survivors that the the
ability that the necessity to kind of
come up with a new way of doing things
that we had done poorly before and that
that is almost part of the process of
the initiation into the new human yeah I
think that people individually who are
making the transition in advance of the
collective who see what's happening and
they're making the changes in their own
life they're made decisive steps to take
down the barriers between race between
religion between cultures they have
eliminated those barriers in their own
heart
they're basically working to live a
different relationship with the earth to
preserve the life systems of the planet
to reduce their footprint to move into
voluntary simplicity the beings would
have made the steps in their personal
life those beings I think become seed
catalysts in our future transformation
my sense is that when we go into this
crisis of the future it's going to last
so long and it's going to affect so many
people and it's going to be so
disruptive and so hard on us that it's
going to stimulate not only our
individual psyches but so many people
will be having these disruptive
experiences that it's going to hyper
stimulate the collective unconscious hmm
it'll drive the collective unconscious
into what we call nonlinear systems and
in a long linear range and we know
something about physical systems when
they are driven into nonlinear
conditions are far from equilibrium
States I think that something that
happens to physical systems there is an
analogy to what will happen in
psychological systems in the psychic
field of the human species and when this
field is pressurized some small
perturbations of the chaos theoreticians
like to say small changes can produce
disproportionate outcomes like a patent
the species will be able to mobilise
unexpected insights unexpected
forms of knowledge unexpected
understandings will emerge so to speak
almost out of nowhere but it's actually
emerging out of our own innate potential
out of our own being so faster than we
could imagine the changes will take
place faster than we could conceive of
if we were looking at the history of the
past because the history of the past is
somewhat mam linear when we go into such
a profound crisis we move into I'm sorry
the past is linear but when we go into
this profound crisis we go into
nonlinear conditions and nonlinear
dynamics
it sounds very scary but very exciting
for those of us who haven't died thirty
times yeah having a baby it's an
excellent analogy because when you have
a baby gestation lasts nine months it's
a very very long process but labor is
very very intense but relatively short
and I think that's also true for our
species going into this crisis we had
been just stating the future human for
hundreds of thousands of years we've
been doing it through reincarnation
reincarnation learning learning learning
learning more reincarnation more
development but the time of Earth is a
relatively short intense period that
requires makes enormous demands just as
the labor does for a woman that's what
we're coming to we are going into a
labor of history the labor of the future
human yeah and it's not gonna be fun
it's not gonna be easy but it's going to
be I think profoundly meaningful and in
the end when we die would you rather
have a nice happy life pleasant but
basically kind of boring not very
significant would you rather have a life
where you knew you were invested in
something that meant something that was
worth something that was profound and I
think that's that's what we're going
into I look I I agree with you I often
I'm also believed
reincarnation and you know you see the
trends that are happening right now and
I often think about if nothing changes
how much worse the next lives are going
to be so to get in there to dig in do
the work that we can be part of the
process and come out the other end I
think it is it as a wonderful option
yeah and it's really important I think
too late in my sessions I began to feel
that it's important for us to understand
the future human that we are becoming
imagine if you went into labor and you
didn't know you were pregnant and you
didn't understand what was happening -
it'd be terrifying me terribly
frightening and when we go into this
dark period of history if we don't have
an understanding that we what's
happening that we are really giving
earth we could succumb to despair we
could you know we're already seeing all
these trauma movies you know about aqua
lipsticks this apocalyptic that we
really have to keep our eye on the
horizon we have to understand what we're
doing this is a spiritual transformation
it's a psycho spiritual transformation
so let's end on the future human tell us
a lot Mike I can't tell you what the
world will be like but I can describe my
experience of touching the future human
and several times in the course of the
sessions I was taken into deep time and
given an opportunity to try on for size
so to speak the human psyche at the
stage of the future human and this
happened very powerfully in the 70th
session of the culmination of this long
process and such a magnificent being
just such an extraordinary being was so
helpful
having experienced the death and rebirth
of humanity having experienced so many
different layers to experience this
future human magnificent being a mind
truly enlightened of mine turned to
deep structure of the universe tuned to
the intelligence of the universe a heart
that was deeply in touch with other
human beings and sensitive to its
history it's longer history without the
human beings a heart which can embrace
the entire planet a heart which which
has a deep appreciation for the damage
that we've done to the living systems on
this planet and to the species that are
going extinct and a commitment to
reverse that to bring forward safe
habitat to basically restore these
systems but an open heart an open mind a
transformed human being that's what
we're that's where we're going and I
think one way of understanding the great
religious saints and sages of history to
understand Christ to understand the
Buddha is all of them basically are
describing what I'm describing they're
describing a way of living which is
deeply different than if you develop
your values basically only in terms of
you know space time consciousness this
is the awakened heart you wake and find
people throughout history you know
people that have been burned at the
stake for example because they had such
faith that there was more than just this
physical incarnation but you know
there's been so few of them throughout
history and to have a whole planet full
of people with this awareness I think
would be amazing I think we are
basically cleaning our psychic basement
we are meaning the collective
unconscious we're cleaning our
individual unconscious and in that
process we are learning how to create
consciously right now a lot of our
creativity is unconscious creativity
we're being dragged around hither and
thither through our own unconscious
conditioning our own unconscious history
but in the course of this transformative
process as we clear our unconscious
conditioning as we clear it collectively
we then begin to be able to manifest our
intelligence in conscious acts of
creativity hmm we will be able to do
extraordinary things that we can only
dream of doing now in future time you
may think becoming a more conscious
creative being you make the comment that
creation is a result of choices yes and
so it's the conscious choices I guess
instead of the myriad of thousands of
unconscious choices that we make every
day that one of the distinctions will be
as that will be more conscious and the
choices that we make less conscious of
the choices we make I think part of how
the word system works is we are in a
living universe we are in a dynamic
universe and we make a choice and the
universe responds to that choice by you
know triggering a series of events I
don't mean to be superficial in
describing how this process works as
layers and layers to it but in the
beginning our understanding is
incomplete and there's a lot of
ignorance in our choices and we inherit
the consequences of ignorant choices and
in this process we we learn we we think
for example we can hurt somebody else
without hurting ourselves and we inherit
the karma of that act in order to learn
that we are all actually embedded in
each other's lives we are all leaves on
the same tree so that we make wiser
choices you know more conscious choices
and we begin to make choices that are
not at the expense of other beings but
actually enhance the well-being of other
beings and that generates its own kind
of feedback cycles in our life it's not
to oversimplify it but the dynamics are
basically there and it feels good you
know I know that when I make somebody
else I feel better it feels good and I
am surprised at how little or you know
that goes on you know it's like
it's just amazing to me because it's
good for me it's good for them it's good
for everything but anyway well there it
sounds like we will I think we will
kindness feels good courage feels good
generosity feels good truth feels good
you know that's not to say you know it's
it's hard to make the right choices and
challenging circumstances it's hard when
you're not getting what you think you
should have to basically give what you
have a way to share what you have with
someone in need but it feels good and it
takes us in the right direction
absolutely well thank you so much my
dear for spending this time with me I
really have appreciated it and as I said
at the beginning I really have a much
more hopeful perspective now for the
future and I'm not so skins dead of debt
I do it absolutely you know this there
is nothing I drop out a lot of the
personal aspects of my journey in the
book I'm really only interested in the
larger Universal aspects and the
collective aspects and the cosmological
aspects what's important is not that I
had these experiences what's important
is that these experiences are available
for all of us to have and they give us
some insight to the background textures
of our lives that's what's important as
a philosopher I think that's the
important thing I really enjoyed our
conversation but as I really thank you
for the opportunity to have this time
with you and for your for your viewers
thank you so much my love you have a
wonderful day
[Music]